There are times when I open lecture materials to study but they look frustrating, looking at concepts I am just seeing for the first time can be a big headache. The truth of the matter is a lecturer cannot teach everything to a student no matter how willing he/she is. The student must also go back to study but here is the challenge how can I get the motivation to study what I do not understand. Sometimes reading can become very boring for me and the drive to study might not be there when I encounter complex/unfamiliar topics.

During 300lv second semester, there was a course I did (digital electronics), the lecture note was not too bulky but the problem was that understanding a page took me about an hour not to talk of solving more examples. This alone is enough to take away the motivation to read the course material.

I was able to manage the course to some extent by attending lectures, watching YouTube videos and attending tutorials organized by Engineering association in the school.
One better way AI could have helped is to summarize the lecture material first to give an overview of what the course is all about, the basic things I need to know before reading the course, what I am expected to know at the end of the course, practical ways I can apply the knowledge I will get from the course and how to study for that course effectively. Well, I really did not use AI to read because I had to watch YouTube videos and before I finish watching the videos the time is gone already.

If an AI model that is specialized in summarizing lecture materials, giving course overviews of what the course will offer, explain hard terminologies, generate solved examples and give questions for practice without giving so much prompt to the model is built then it will make learning easier and more enjoyable. I personally as a computer engineering student will be eager to learn when I easily understand the course and I know that this course I am learning can be used to build practical solutions.

Since we are in the era of technology specifically the era of Artificial Intelligence (AI), I see AI as a tool that could make learning more practical and efficient. This solution will not only help me but it will also help my fellow students out there struggling to understand the concept in lecture material